FRONTEND:

    For this project, I chose to leverage v0 by Next.js to develop a highly customized user interface (UI) for my project. Similar to Bootstrap, v0 provides UI templates that are generated by v0, an AI-powered generator that pulls from a repository built by Next.js. Given this choie, the front end of the site was automatically deployed to Vercel (a sister company to NEXT.js). 

    Because I used a template provided by Next.js, the project was built with react (using .tsx files) and Tailwind CSS. By using React, I learned how to use JavaScript XML (also known as JSX) which leverages syntax similar to HTML that can be used directly in my JavaScript code. I should also give credite to both ChatGPT and Gemini, who helped me throughout the project given that I was new to using these languages. 

BACKEND:

    Vercel makes it easy to deploy a backend with Supabase. So, I signed up with a free account to create my databases there. To view the types of databases that I built in Supabase, please see the file titled migrations.sql. By using this platform, I was able to setup Supabase Auth for email and password verification via an email link. It also allowed me to set up admin privilegs for select users by creating a columm in the users database and creating a guard logic in the admin/approvals directory. 

    One area where I ran into the most trouble was row-level security (RLS) for file and photo uploads. Although I was able to fix the RLS conflicts that I encountered for résumé upload feature, I ran into issues with the profile photo upload component. The photo upload component was working up until March 10th. Given the deadline, I have decided to return to this after I submit. For now, I have included a "placeholder" photo for the member profiles. 


ROUTING

    When creating the routes, I chose to provide members the opportunity to create a URL that is unique to them. To do so, I created the app/[slug] pathway. By using a slug that branches directly from VERIVOX's app folder, members can have a clean URL to share with others. Once I connect my deployed site to the domaim that I purchased, that means a member's unique URL will appear as: www.verivox.space/name. This provides members with crisp, clean, and professional URL that they can use to showcase their profile, work, and publications. 

LOGIN / LOGOUT LOGIC    

    Borrowing from concepts in the Finance Problem Set, I built the header in such a way to indicate to users whether they are logged in or not. If the user is logged out, they will see two essential buttons in the right side of the header: "Signup" and "Login." Visitors who are new to the site can click on "Signup" to go through the registration process (see REAMD.md for more details). Alternatively, if the user's has already been manually approved by the administrator, then can click "Login." Once logged into the session, a member will see new buttons: "Edit Profile," "New Article," and "Logout." 

REGISTRATION & PROFILES

    I spent a big chunk of time at the beginning of the project ensuring a seamless user experience for the registration process. Because VERIVOX is intended for alumni as well as current students, there is no easy way to verify the individual's membership (e.g. requiring a Harvard email address). Given this, after email verification through a magiclink, I ask users to complete a "regsitration" from. This form includes all of the information that will be piped into their publicy displayed proofile. However, it also serves a double purpose: I use this information to verify whether they are connected to the EdLD program. While a user could potentially lie, I doubt that they would (and I can always remove them if flagged by others). Once approved by me on the approvals/admin page, new profiles then autopopulate on the homepage, profiles section, as well as the member's unique profile page. It should be noted that the profiles display through the unique slug page, as well as a unique ID page (i.e. app/profiles/[id]/page.tsx). This ensures that user profiles are displayed both by ID and the auto-generated slug. 

ARTICLES    

    Once approved, authenticated members then have the ability to post articles using a rich text editor that is rendered on the page located at app/articles/new. When a member posts a new article, a unique ID is created, and the page is rendered through the page at app/articles/[id]. Eventually, I would also like to create a slug option. 

HOMEPAGE & ABOUT: 

    The last two pages that I completed were the homepage and the "About" page. The homepage was fairly easy to finalize, given that most of the content is auto-generated (i.e. recently created profiles and articles). Meanwhile, the About page is mostly a text-based page while was simple to create. 

UNFINISHED WORK:

    Like I mentioned in the READ.md, it is my hope that this platform will actually be used by members of the EdLD community. The current platform that exists is obsolete, and hardly anybody uses. My hope is that VERIVOX can serve as a new way for EdLD alumni and students to connect. For that reason, it is imperative that I resolve the RLS issues related to the profile upload. Additionally, as of right now, the only way for members to update their profiles is to resubmit the register form. I then have to approve it again. I need to either create a new "edit-profile" page, or change the permissions on the register form to allow authenticated members to only include the information that they wish to submit (right now, most fields are required). I also need to create pages for the Privacy Policy as well as the Terms of Service (which need to be written). A "nice to have" would be a Member Forum page, where authenticated users can post messages, such as job opporutnities. Right now, most alumni continue to use Facebook to do this, but many people hardly every pay attention to it anymore. My hope is to create a space that is private virtual space that alumni will use. 